collections still needs population // to be removed from the game
custom recipes // to be removed or integrated elsewhere
make shepherd breed animals on workcycle //to be remade
merits need population //to be removed

Potions:
recipes need balancing, but first I need to remake farming to tie the recipes into the potion ingredients.
more potions need to be created to fit into each subsystem.



Farming Rework:
I have determined Farming to be a boring ass activity.
To remedy this, I will revamp it, by adding less grind and more management, as this aspect of the game is the most fun.
The player will still be able to use mass farming for Emeralds and early game XP, but late game and end game players will be able to leverage a greenhouse.

Introducing "Verdant Relics."
Verdant Relics are ancient seeds found from various other aspects of the game. Think of them as the "Recipe item" equivalent for farming.
Players can place Verdant Relics into any dirt block variant including grass.
If the player right clicks a dirt block with a Verdant Relic, it will display a Sapling on it (Verdant Relics display as a sapling type, with a floating name tag displaying
the type of Verdant Relic planted. Persistence is the biggest challenge here.
Verdant Relics will grow over a period of time (defined in the creation of the type of Verdant Relic, explained below) with the chance to
experience various complications every minute.
A Verdant Relic can experience several "complications." These complications include:
Drought (remedied by right clicking with water bucket), Overgrown (remedied by right clicking with shears),
Infested (remedied by right clicking with Pesticide, an item sold by farmers), Malnutrition (remedied by right clicking with Organic Soil, an item obtained from the Pig Pet)
unlike potions, which just require patience and a long period of time, Verdant Relics require care over increasingly long periods of time based on how rare the plant is.
Tier 4 farmers will sell an item called "Watering Can", which will cure a plant instantly, regardless of its ailment, at the cost of the watering can. the watering can will be an
empty bucket i will retexture with a texture pack and will be removed (getamount.setamount -1) when successfully curing a plant.



Combat made more interesting by introducing variation and scaling the power of the player and monsters much higher, requiring the player to get stronger to match.
Brewing made more interesting by introducing complex recipes and ingredient combinations for late and end game potions.
Cooking (an obsolete aspect of the game) made interesting by introducing new cooking combinations with recipes.
Villagers made more interesting by introducing a hiring system, a custom trade system, an emerald economy, and many many upgrades, as well as work cycles that benefit the player.
Enchanting made more interesting by locking it within the anvil and enchantment table in a unique way, as well as adding custom enchantments and ultimate enchantments.
Farming boring as fuck.
Fishing made more interesting by introducing Sea Creatures, treasure, and leveraging its fun mechanics to open doors elsewhere.
Forestry made more interesting by introducing a Forest Notoriety system, punishing the player for mass deforestation but rewarding players for being strong enough to kill them.
Mining made more interesting by balancing world generation, and mining mechanics, as well as leveraging an Oxygen System.
Music made more interesting by making music discs cause localized events for the player to gain items from.
Pets made more interesting by inventing them to empower the player in various ways, and in some ways unlocking avenues of interest.
Smithing made more interesting by inventing it to solve the issue of mojang making a stupidly punishing repair system.

















TODO:
prevent the verdant relics from growing
add shatterproof verdant relic
add the rest of them